>> Hello, I'm
Georgia Shakti-Hill.
And I am so pleased to bring
one of the friends of "Living
in Balance" back and
author Angela Trafford.
She has new wisdom and
new light to share.
Come join us "Living in
Balance on Shakti-Hill."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
"Remembering the
Language of God:
The Forgotten Path,"
that is the title,
and the author we have with us,
Angela Trafford, and welcome.
>> Thank you so much, Georgia.
Thank you for inviting me.
>> Ah!
We have a wonderful new
book that you have just
created and published
for us, and there is much
that you have learned
since the first book
that you wrote for us before.
>> That's so true.
And being a student
of life, I am learning
every moment of each day.
>> And you were on
our program before,
and we called it "Miracles
and Self-Healing."
And so the healing process
is continuing for Angela?
>> Yes, and living in the
land of the miraculous.
[LAUGHTER]
Something new happens every day.
>> Yes.
Well, OK, now let's just
look at this new book,
"Remembering the
Language of God."
OK, what is the language of God?
>> The language of God and the
title "Remembering the Language
of God" simply is stating
that each of us is born with
a primordial gift of the
divine within ourselves,
and we lose the connection to
that gift through childhood
and the experiences of the lack
of unconditional love and even
abuse in our childhood.
And then as we
grow up, we attract
destructive relationships.
And so each of us
reaches a point
in our life where the suffering
is so intense that we've
attracted crisis in our
life, and that is the time
to go within, and we can act
and feel the pain of our lives
because only through
reconnecting with that pain
and feeling the feelings
can we connect with God
as human beings on this earth.
>> So it's, really, each person
comes to their moment of truth
when they're forced to look
again at their own divineness
because it's too harsh
out there in reality?
[LAUGHS]
>> Exactly, because
their life experience
and the destructiveness of their
relationships has not brought
them the fulfillment and the
happiness that they expected.
And so we had to expand
ourselves in order
to embrace another
point of view,
and transform ourselves-- first,
with the conditioning of what
we've been taught, and
then opening the heart
and feeling the pain
that will lead us
into the language of God.
>> And the subtitle is
"The Forgotten Path."
So we forgot our divineness.
We forgot that essence of the
bubbly, blissful, childlike
part of our lives.
>> That's right, and we have
forgotten this because we are
living in an age of technology
and most of us have become very
intellectualized.
And therefore, we are out of
touch with our true feelings
and living life
according to what
we've been taught to believe
by our parents, by our society,
and by our churches.
And so in order to go to the
next step of our evolution,
we have to open
our hearts to what
I believe is the
experience of God that
is ongoing for each one of us.
But it's a point
in our evolution
that we have to learn how to
do this because we've lost our,
not the gift, but
we've lost the way,
and it is really the way
of love that we've lost.
And being intellectualized
in our ego, most of us
get lost in that control.
And we have to
really learn what it
means to experience
the humility,
the gratitude, the unconditional
love that is the way of love.
>> Well, as I was
reading the book,
I was feeling badly for you
because I thought, gosh,
you have created a wonderful
counseling service that you do
called self-healing,
and people come to you,
and you work with
them, you counsel them.
But people come to you when
they're in a lot of pain,
and much of what
you have learned
about these difficulties is
that people come to you when
they are in need, and you
have learned techniques
that can help them self-heal.
>> Exactly, and I feel very
fortunate that I am in that
position where people do come
to me when they're in pain
because people become very
real when they are experiencing
the pain of our lives.
And you've probably
noticed yourself
how much in illusion
people are today.
People have all
kinds of conceptions
of what spirituality is,
religious conceptions of what
god is all about.
And so when people face
mortal illness, when
they face divorce, separation,
when people fall in love, when
life comes in and
intrudes on our plans,
that's when we are
forced to open our hearts
and find out what
life is really about.
And what we find
is that it is not
what we were taught to believe.
And so then we have to find out
what is the reality of life,
and that's our challenge.
>> Does this happen to us
once or does it happen again
and again?
Is it like we wake up to a
point, and then we're OK,
or are we going to be
then challenged again
to look within?
>> Well, we are always
challenged each day.
Each choice you
make is a challenge.
But some of us are aware
of that and others aren't.
That's the difference between
being unconscious and then
becoming a conscious
human being.
So yes, we are
challenged each day.
But we don't have to
reach the point of crisis.
If we find ourselves and open
our hearts on our path in life
and truly learn how to
love first ourselves
and then how to share that love
with our fellow human beings,
that's quite, to me, the task.
The purpose of each one of us
that's born onto this planet
is to learn that.
But you can't learn
that without feeling
the pain that is part of life.
>> So our lessons that are hard,
they really then are our gifts
if we move past them, if we
don't stay in the victim mode.
We have to move out of the
victim though, don't we?
>> Yes, we do.
And we also have to learn
how to go within and feel
the emotional honesty that
allows us to [CHUCKLES]
turn some of the
experiences in our life that
would be hurtful into our good.
I always say that I've
been spinning straw
into gold for the past
13 years, and that's
the art of living as far as I'm
concerned, it's how to do that.
>> And your story for the people
who have not met you before--
the first book that you
wrote is "The Heroic Path."
>> That's right.
>> And you-- just tell us that
story because it is beautiful
of the way you healed.
>> Well, that's quite a story.
>> It is.
>> I have to try and put it
in as few words as possible.
I was living an
unconscious life,
in denial of my feelings like so
many of my brothers and sisters
until I finally crash-landed
into the reality of my life
through the
experience of cancer.
And I had to face
the fact that I
was going to die without
ever having lived.
And I decided that
I wanted to live
and that it was my
responsibility that if I wanted
to live, that I had to take
responsibility for my life
and be responsible
for the choices
that I had to make in
order to heal my life.
And I found myself going
within through prayer
and journaling and
expressing my feelings
and standing up for
myself in my life,
and that was the start of it.
And going through many,
many painful experiences
in trying to heal
of cancer and then
in losing my children
through a custody
battle with my
abusive ex-husband
forced me to surrender my life
to God and to let go of my life
to God and to ask God
to show me how to live.
>> So you were empowered that
you had to take responsibility,
you had to make choices that
took the control of your life
back so that you could be the
person that you wanted to be.
>> I had to let go and surrender
my life in order to take back
my life.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> It's like Jesus said, "He who
loses his life, shall find it."
>> And it is interesting how--
and you have to know when you
need to surrender and just let
go and let God and just go with
the flow and then when is
it time to take it back.
>> Well--
>> It takes power.
>> Desperation causes a lot of--
[LAUGHTER]
>> --suffering to a
point of desperation too.
And that's what happened to me,
where I just literally caved
in and fell on my knees
in my living room floor
and surrendered my life to God.
And afterward, in
finding out that I
had lost the custody
of my children
and have the
occurrence of cancer,
I began to go within
through meditation, prayer,
and visualization
and start to get
in touch with the
reality of my life
and had an experience where
I felt a white light moving
through my body, healing me.
And in essence, God
really healed me
through a miracle in
opening to this white light.
And I had a healing which
changed my entire life
and put me on a path
of miracles where I now
recovered the custody
of my children
and have been with my children
for the past seven years
and then also--
>> Healed of cancer.
>> --healed of cancer and
got on the path of recovering
my purpose of life, which was
to start my work, self-healing,
and to teach people how to love
and that love beginning with
our own hearts for each
one of us inside ourselves,
which is what I think
we have really lost.
I mean, most of us
can love other people,
but it's hard to go
within and love yourself.
>> But that is the
beginning point.
We have to forgive ourselves.
We have to love ourselves.
And so the healing
starts with the self.
And then we are better
lovers and healers
to others if we have
gotten back to that point.
>> Well, it's the only way.
We can really [CHUCKLES]
be that to anybody else
because I've really learned
that you can only teach people
by example, and having a loving
life is the best example.
>> Yes, and you keep coming
back to the word love,
and that is the essence
of the message, is it not?
>> That is the whole
message because--
I was just talking
about this to somebody
this morning, to my publisher,
and she was telling me
about how she was taught
that people can't change,
and I also have.
I introduced my book with saying
something my mother always used
to say, was that, a leopard
can't change its spots,
and another belief,
all life is suffering.
Well, these are all beliefs.
>> Yes.
>> And they aren't true--
>> And we have to
move beyond that.
>> --because you can change,
but it only happens through love
and opening the heart
and finding that love.
>> Well, we're going
to take a break.
And when we come back, you
have learned many techniques
that will help us healing
because you have remembered
the language of God.
If you will stay tuned, we'll
be right back with Angela.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Welcome back.
If you're just joining us, we're
talking to Angela Trafford.
She is an author, which
has really fun things that
are happening to her.
Also, a film is going
to be filmed of you
and your story and your life.
>> That's right.
American artists out
of Atlanta, Georgia
is-- now I'm about to
sign a contract with them,
and they're very
interested in the books
and in this journey
that has brought me
to such a point of miracles
and fulfillment in my life
and trying to learn about what
constitutes human happiness.
And so that's very exciting.
>> It is.
And also, you have a radio show.
>> Yes, I'm going to
have my own radio show,
KCCF out by Phoenix,
Arizona which is in Arizona.
And that's going to start
at the end of this month,
so I'm very excited
about all these things.
But that's what happens when
you in the land of the miracles
and on your path in life.
You never know what's
going to happen next.
>> Well, one of the things we
always have to share about you
is that you have credibility
because the American Medical
Association says so.
[LAUGHS]
>> Definitely, say that again.
>> You have been honored
by being recognized by AMA.
>> Well, this happened
two years ago,
that the American Medical
Association designated me
an expert in
alternative medicine.
They honored me with
that designation
because so many of the people
that were coming to the doctors
and were healing would tell
the doctors that they were also
coming to see me.
And so I became recognized which
was a really wonderful feeling.
>> Yes, I wondered if you
would share with us some
of the techniques that
you use with people.
And I said specifically
one of the things
that you address is addictions
and addictive behaviors.
What can you tell
us that people can
be doing toward doing
self-healing, our audience,
for example, or
people they love?
>> Well, I would say first
to start out with prayer,
and that prayer is the most
important thing because when we
pray, we are actually
making that connection,
we are seeking to make that
connection to the voice of God
that is within each one of us.
And also meditation
because meditation
quiets down the voice of the
ego, the voices of the mind
so that we can then be more
attuned to the inner voice.
And another very powerful
tool is journaling.
>> Yes, you mentioned
that you did that,
and that helped you so much.
>> Well, journaling really
saved my life through a lot
of the painful years of my
life, and actually sitting down
and writing down my feelings
and then of course writing down
my dreams and seeing
what the unconscious,
what God was trying to reveal
to me through the symbolism
of the dream.
>> Well, then the self-awareness
is enhanced by journaling.
You quiet the mind, and the
good information comes through.
You pray and you
open to the divine.
So these are all steps that
anyone can take no matter
what is going on in their life.
It's towards self-healing.
>> That's right.
As long as we want to be
aware because a lot of people
come to me, and they say God
deserted them in their lives.
And I say, well, God is inside
of you and all around you,
but you have turned from God.
And that's what most of us
have done through the suffering
and the abuse of our lives.
>> So who deserted him.
>> Yes, and we've
become cynical.
>> When we come back, that's
what we can always do,
and we could come back
always just by opening.
>> Just by opening
and by asking.
And I think that most of us
feel reluctant to ask for help,
and we've lost the faith
in God and in ourselves
that help is available
and that help is possible.
And unfortunately, we
have become hopeless
when there's so much
hope all around us.
>> The addictive behaviors--
we're not just talking
about drug addiction,
but we are addicted--
as people, we
can become addicted to things
outside of ourselves, anything
that we allow to control us.
But if we come
back to addiction--
are you dealing with a lot
of people who are facing
their addictive behaviors?
>> Well, they have to.
I mean, all of us
have become addicts.
We're in an addictive society.
And I define addiction
a heroic path,
us being out of the
light of God's love.
And so what does that mean?
It means that we're in darkness.
How do you come out
of the darkness?
You have to be humble.
You have to find humility.
You have to become grateful.
And most of all, the
most important thing
is you have to get in
touch with your pain,
and not just the pain of your
life, but pain as part of life
on a day-to-day basis.
And through our
addictive behaviors,
we seek the stimulation
that will deny that pain,
so we don't have
to feel that pain,
and so we then
become blocked off
on both the light and the
love that will heal us
and will give us a sense
of happiness and well-being
in life.
I always say that,
there is pain in life,
but that misery is optional.
>> [LAUGHS] Yes, so it is how
we respond to it, is it not?
>> It is.
>> Uh-huh.
Well, as far as the people
that you're working with,
and you can be then alternative
medicine in a complimentary way
because you're dealing
with how they're thinking
about their physical
disease, and then
the medical doctor is
dealing with the disease
as it has developed.
Is that kind of you're
working together?
>> Yes, I am helping
people find themselves,
their essential nature,
give birth to themselves,
and find their way out of
destructive relationships.
That's another very
important issue.
>> Yeah, there's a lot of
abuse that you say is going
on in our society.
Whether it's child abuse, sexual
abuse, or emotional abuse,
we're allowing ourselves to
be in negative relationships.
>> Yes, because we feel
too guilty and because we
don't have any way out
of these relationships.
And many of these
destructive entanglements
become bondages that are
addictions in themselves,
and so a person can
become an addiction.
You hear of people,
women especially,
going through abusive
relationships,
and then they get out of it, and
then they go back to the abuser
again and keep on
repeating the same cycle,
repeating the same pattern.
>> There really isn't anything
we can do about the abuser.
I mean, that is
outside of our control.
But what we do is we can take
control of our lives again,
surrender, let go,
and we can get out
of that negative relationship.
We have to.
>> Yes, that's our
responsibility to ourselves.
But most of us have been
brainwashed by society
to feel that we have
to stay with people
and heal them when
that is totally wrong.
>> But we can't.
We can't fix them.
We can maybe create a space for
another person to become better
or to heal themselves and we
cannot harm another person,
but you really can't fix
the other person, can you?
>> That's exactly
right, Georgia.
And in order to
take our power back,
we have to realize
that, and then
assume our responsibility
to our own selves
and take our focus
off the other person
and put our focus
on our own pain.
>> Yes.
Well, you have in the
back of the book--
and I really like it.
In the appendix,
you have all sorts
of affirmations and meditations
and positive things,
and you make reference to
the awakenings that we have,
the passages of time
that you call something
the path of life chart.
What is that that
we're going through?
[LAUGHTER]
>> The path of life chart came
to me when I was sitting out
by the water in the
back of my house.
All of a sudden, God
started speaking to me,
and I ran and got a pencil,
and I started writing it down.
And [CHUCKLES] that
path of life chart
started to be written down
as an expression of how
we are whole at birth and
totally in touch with life
and have an open heart and how
through our painful experiences
with our parents in childhood,
start to lose part of ourselves
and then grow up and
attract those same types
of parental figures
into our lives
until we reach a point in
life where we're in denial,
and that's when tragedy and
crisis comes into our lives.
>> And we have set
up a pattern then.
>> Exactly, and living
life based on fear instead
of the trust and love that
will move us forward in life.
>> And the good news is we
can move forward in life.
[CHUCKLES]
>> Absolutely.
And that is the good news.
That's what I really want to
convey, is that we can change
and we can change our lives.
Life is not meant to be about
suffering, that we are meant--
for the soul to find its
own joy in our lives,
but we have forgotten that.
And so in order to remember,
we have to close our eyes
and go within and take the next
step in our evolution, which
is opening the heart and feeling
the feelings that will connect
us to God, so we can all
become divine children
and have an expression of
life that is one of love
and self-esteem and happiness
instead of this suffering that
is so prevalent in
our world today.
>> I love that.
That is so well said.
[LAUGHS]
>> Thank you.
>> If you would like to be in
touch with Angela and if you
would like to be in touch
with us, stay tuned.
We'll tell you how.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Angela Trafford has
shared her wisdom
in her life through
"The Heroic Path"
and through "Remembering
The Language of God."
It has been wonderful to
have her with us today.
And it is wonderful to
have you joining us "Living
in Balance on Shakti-Hill."
Until next time.
May you be well,
happy, and peaceful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]